>> Scott Moss: So hopping into
what you were talking about Dave,
which is gonna be the different types and
graph scale.
So there's basically, I mean, there's many
times, but like as far as value types,
there's really only two, there's
gonna be scholars and object types.
And basically what they both do is
they describe resources that will be
used in queries and mutations.
So scholar types are like built in
primitives and here are the built in ones.
We have a string, we have an int, which
is like integer, we have a float which is
like a decimal, we have a boolean which
is true or false and then you have ID
which is literally the same thing as
a string except it's meant to be unique.
There's no validation on it.
You almost never have the user ID but
it's there just to know that
this is a unique string.
That's what ID is for,
it's a unique thing.
So yeah, you could use ID for
ID but it's basically a string.
So those are built in primitives, so
those are free for you in GraphQL.
And eventually, every single field that
you make has to boil down to one of these
at some point in your tree,
if you have a cat that's referencing
Owner and owner is referencing a parent,
and a parent is referencing a grandparent.
Eventually, it's gonna boil down to some
field being a string integer or float or
boolean or
ID cuz those are where values are stored.
Object types are custom shapes with
fields that are either scholar types or
other object types.
So if we go back over to our example here,
type cat is an object type cuz
we used the key word type.
We give the name cat, and these brackets,
they have nothing to do with JavaScript.
But you can think of them as
there's brackets here, so
this is is an object type.
That helps you remember it and
you can use that but
that has nothing to do with JavaScript.
But yes, this is a custom object type.
String is a scholar type,
int is a scholar type.
And you can see, what I was saying
is any field can be any type.
I could come here to this cat and
say best friend.
Best friend is a cat, so
like I said a cat has a best friend,
which is also a cat,
and that points to an object which is cat,
which has a name and an age.
So how would I resolve that?
I would come down here, and
I would say bestFriend.
>> Scott Moss: And
guess what that needs to look like?
This would look like the same
thing that it's been hosted on,
and it will just go forever and
ever and ever cause its graph.
You can see that it's a graph,
it'll keep going, so I could resolve that,
as long as I don't ask what the best
friend's best friend is, this query should
work cuz I don't feel like adding that,
that's just too much work.
So if you go back, we refresh this,
and we say give me myCat.
I want the name, and
then I'm gonna get the bestFriend, and
then I want to get the name
of that best friend.
>> Scott Moss: Then I can query for that
and you can see that's what I get back.
So a field eventually has to come down
to being some type of style type but
it doesn't prevent you from having object
types as fields as long as they boil down
to some style type eventually.
>> Speaker 2: How does it handle
a race situation where you
point back to the same object?
>> Scott Moss: Like so
what do you mean, handle it?
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: You could potentially create
a race situation where the-
>> Scott Moss: A circular dependancy where
it keeps going forever?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Scott Moss: It doesn't.
So that's gonna be up to you, right?
I don't wanna get too deep into it cuz
we're gonna talk about it
when we get to resolvers.
But yeah,
if I added a previous best friend here and
I referenced back to the other one,
it kept going back and forth.
Yeah, it'll just go on forever if
they keep asking for it, right?
If someone keeps writing
in here like this and
they just keep going,
>> Scott Moss: And they just go on and
on and on and on, yeah, there's nothing
stopping them from doing this by default.
If you just leave it that way,
the resolvers will continue
to keep resolving it.
And if every single one of
those is a database query,
you could literally kill your server.
Somebody could DDOS you super quick.
So there's a lot of ways to get around
this, and we could talk about those at
the end of the day when you have
more context about resolvers,
cuz they're really advanced.
But yeah, but basically, by default,
there's nothing you can do.
They just gonna do it, yeah.
We ran into this problem a lot.